## Contributing to Gittip

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Gittip! :smiley:

We welcome contributions of all types: design, code, discussion, marketing,
etc.

If you are opening a new issue or submitting a pull request, **go for it!**
Don't be afraid that it's a dumb idea or a duplicate of another issue or an
unwanted change or whatever, especially if this is your first time
participating with us. We're glad to have you! :-)

If you feel like we're ignoring your issue or pull request then call me out
([whit537](https://twitter.com/whit537)) on Twitter, or if you're not on
Twitter then <a href="mailto:chad@zetaweb.com">email</a> or even call me
(Chad Whitacre, +1-412-925-4220). 


##### Where We Hang Out

Twitter and IRC are the two main online hangouts for Team Gittip (besides
GitHub). I'm [whit537](https://twitter.com/whit537) on Twitter, and we're in
 #gittip on Freenode for our chatroom (here's a [web
interface](https://webchat.freenode.net/)). Jump in and introduce yourself!
:-)

We also exist in the real world at times. :-)


### Code

For typo fixes and other small changes, you can use the GitHub web interface to
propose changes.

To contribute more substantial changes, the first step is to install Gittip
locally, which is documented in the
[README](https://github.com/whit537/www.gittip.com#readme). That file also
documents our testing setup. Changes with tests are better than changes
without.

Find us on Twitter or Freenode if you get stuck.


##### License

Gittip is [licensed under
CC0](https://github.com/whit537/www.gittip.com/tree/master/COPYING), i.e., it's
public domain. 


##### Collaborators

Gittip has a policy that anyone with four commits accepted into the repo is
invited to be a collaborator. It's opt-in though, so we'll ask you first (or
you can feel free to ask us if we're negligent) before adding you. Once you're
a collaborator you can commit to the main repo directly without having to
submit pull requests. Ideally collaborators represent people who think of
themselves as part of the Gittip team. If you don't contribute code for a while
(a year?) we'll probably retire your collaborator status.
